New heapsnapshot file schema article (#2182)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/memory-problems/heap-snapshot-schema.md

---
title: The heap snapshot file format
description: How the heap snapshot files are structured, when exported from the Memory tool
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 9/16/2022
---
# The heap snapshot file format

Investigating memory usage in web applications can be difficult. The DevTools **Memory** tool allows you to explore all of the objects that are allocated in memory, by your web application by taking a heap snapshot. This information is useful for performance investigations because you can find out which objects are consuming the most memory.

However, sometimes you may need to focus on specific parts of the memory data that the **Memory** tool doesn't show. In this case, use DevTools to export the entire set of memory data as a `.heapsnapshot` JSON file.

This article describes the structure and content of `.heapsnapshot` JSON files so you can build your own visualization and analysis tools.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Record a heap snapshot

> To export a `.heapsnapshot` file, you first need to record a heap snapshot in the **Memory** tool, as follows:

Reviewer: first you need

---
title: Understand the heap snapshot file format
description: How the heap snapshot files are structured, when exported from the Memory tool
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 9/16/2022
---

> # Understand the heap snapshot file format

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# The .heapsnapshot file format
```
If change title, change all spots:
the title: yaml field above
h1 here
toc.yml
link text of links from other pages to here

> Investigating memory usage in web applications can be hard. The DevTools **Memory** tool allows you to explore all the objects allocated in memory by your web application by taking a heap snapshot. This information is useful for performance investigations because you can find out what objects are consuming the most memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Investigating memory usage in web applications can be difficult. The DevTools **Memory** tool allows you to explore all the objects that are allocated in memory by your web application, by taking a heap snapshot. This information is useful for performance investigations, because you can find out which objects are consuming the most memory.
```

> However, sometimes you may need to focus on specific parts of the data that the **Memory** tool doesn't show. Fortunately DevTools makes it possible to export the entire memory data as a `heapsnapshot` file which you can then analyze and visualize with your own tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, sometimes you may need to focus on specific parts of the data that the **Memory** tool doesn't show.  In this case, use DevTools to export the entire set of memory data as a `heapsnapshot` file, which you can then analyze and visualize with your own tools.
```

Reviewer 2: try an alternative to writing "your own tools".  What type of tools would these be, for example?  VS Code / code editor/ text editor?

Author: Visual Studio Code isn't necessarily the right example to give here. The format of the data in a `.heapsnapshot` file is too complicated to read as JSON. Later in the doc we mention opening the file in VS Code, but that's just to show people that this is, indeed, just JSON data, and so that they can see real examples of the data documented below.
We're not expecting anyone to actually use VS Code to investigate a memory leak.
The reason for this doc is for people to build their own visualization tools. So I think we should keep the "your own tools" part.

> This article describes the structure and content of `heapsnapshot` files so you can build your own analysis tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This article describes the structure and content of `.heapsnapshot` files so you can build your own analysis tools.
```

Author: I don't think anyone will want to read these files directly. This doc is really for people to build their own tools. A heapsnapshot file is tens of thousands of lines long, with basically just numbers.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Record a heap snapshot

> To export a `heapsnapshot` file, you first need to record it in the **Memory** tool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To export a `.heapsnapshot` file, you first need to record it in the **Memory** tool.
```

1. In Microsoft Edge, navigate to the website you want to export the data from.

1. Press `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`I` (Windows, Linux) or `Command`+`Option`+`I` (macOS) to open Devtools.

1. Open the **Memory** tool.

1. Select **Heap snapshot** and then click **Take snapshot**.

> To find out more see [Record heap snapshots using the Memory tool](heap-snapshots.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Record heap snapshots using the Memory tool](heap-snapshots.md).
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Export and view a `heapsnapshot` file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Export and view a `.heapsnapshot` file
```

Once you have recorded a heap snapshot, you can export it.

1. In the **Memory** tool left sidebar, click **Save** next to the heap snapshot item you just recorded.

> 1. Change the file extension from `.heapsnapshot` to `.json` to make it easier to open the file in a text editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Change the file extension from `.heapsnapshot` to `.json`, to make it easier to open the file in a text editor.
```

> 1. Open the saved file in a text editor such as Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open the saved file in a text editor, such as Visual Studio Code.
```

> 1. To facilitate reading the `heapsnapshot` file, re-format the JSON: in Visual Studio Code, right-click on the code and choose **Format document**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To facilitate reading the `heapsnapshot` file, reformat the JSON: in Visual Studio Code, right-click on the code and choose **Format document**.
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/r/re

> Note that the resulting file will be different every time you record and export a heap snapshot. Heap snapshots are dynamically generated based on the content of the web application currently being inspecting in DevTools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the resulting file will be different every time you record and export a heap snapshot. Heap snapshots are dynamically generated, based on the content of the web application that's currently being inspected in DevTools.
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Overview of the `heapsnapshot` file format

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Overview of the `.heapsnapshot` file format
```

> The memory used by a web application is organized in a graph by V8, the JavaScript engine used by Microsoft Edge. A graph is a data type that is composed of nodes (points on the graph) and edges (links between the points).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The memory used by a web application is organized as a graph by V8, which is the JavaScript engine used by Microsoft Edge. A graph is a data type that is composed of _nodes_ (points on the graph) and _edges_ (links between the points).
```

> The data in the `heapsnapshot` file represents that graph efficiently and in a way that facilitates the transfer of data as chunks between the browser process and DevTools. The `heapsnapshot` file contains a flattened representation of the relations between nodes and edges as a JSON object containing arrays of numbers and strings. Even if the file originally has a `.heapsnapshot` extension, it contains JSON.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The data in the `.heapsnapshot` file represents the graph efficiently and makes it easier to transfer groups of data between the browser process and DevTools. The `.heapsnapshot` file contains a flattened representation of the relations between nodes and edges as a JSON object that contains arrays of numbers and strings. The file name has a `.heapsnapshot` extension, and the file contains JSON-formatted data.
```

The data has two main parts:

> 

Reviewer 2: Global comment; find "payload" in this .md file. Is the term payload adequately defined & clear? A payload is not the graph, but it is to be used to recreate the graph. It's equivalent to the graph. In the context of exchanged JSON, it's a payload. After converting the JSON-formatted payload to a graph, a graph results.

> * The metadata, which contains all of the information you need in order to parse the arrays of data found in the payload to re-create the graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The metadata, which contains all of the information you need in order to parse the arrays of data in the payload to re-create the graph.
```

Reviewer 2: Global comment; find "payload" in this .md file.  Is the term _payload_ adequately defined & clear?  A payload is not the graph, but it is to be used to recreate the graph.  It's equivalent to the graph.  In the context of exchanged JSON, it's a payload.  After converting the JSON-formatted payload to a graph, a graph results.

> * The payload, which contains the actual data needed to re-create the graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The payload, which contains the actual data that's needed to re-create the graph.
```

Reviewer 2: finding: American Heritage dict. supports both recreate and re-create, I'd write re-create.

https://www.ahdictionary.com/word/search.html?q=recreate

> Note that the format of the `heapsnapshot` file, as documented below, may change in the future as V8 and DevTools evolve. We always try to keep our documentation up to date but if you encounter a discrepancy please send us feedback on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/issues).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The format of the `heapsnapshot` file, as documented below, may change in the future, as V8 and DevTools evolve. We always try to keep our documentation up to date, but if you encounter a discrepancy, please send us feedback in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/issues).
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Schema of the `heapsnashot` data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Schema of the `.heapsnapshot` data
```

### Top-level structure

> The `heapsnapshot` JSON data contains a root object with the following properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `.heapsnapshot` JSON data contains a root object that has the following properties:
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/u/using-by-using-with

```json
{
    "snapshot": {},
    "nodes": [],
    "edges": [],
    "trace_function_infos": [],
    "trace_tree": [],
    "samples": [],
    "locations": [],
    "strings": []
}
```

| Property | Description | Format |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `snapshot` | Contains all the information about the format of the payload and its size | `Object` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `snapshot` | Contains all the information about the format of the payload and its size. | `Object` |
```

Reviewer 2: Is the term _payload_ adequately defined & clear?  It's not the graph but it is to be used to recreate the graph.  It's equivalent to the graph.  In the context of exchanged JSON, it's a payload.  After converting the JSON-formatted payload to a graph, a graph results.

> | `nodes` | All the information required to re-create the nodes of the graph. To parse this information you need `snapshot.meta.node_types` and `snapshot.meta.node_fields` | `Array` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `nodes` | All the information required to re-create the nodes of the graph. To parse this information, you need `snapshot.meta.node_types` and `snapshot.meta.node_fields`. | `Array` |
```

> | `edges` | All the information required to re-create the edges of the graph. To parse this you need `snapshot.meta.edge_types` and `snapshot.meta.edge_fields` | `Array` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `edges` | All the information that's needed to re-create the edges of the graph. To parse this data, use `snapshot.meta.edge_types` and `snapshot.meta.edge_fields`. | `Array` |
```

| `trace_function_infos` | _Not documented yet_ | `Array` |
| `trace_tree` | _Not documented yet_ | `Array` |
| `samples` | _Not documented yet_ | `Array` |
| `locations` | _Not documented yet_ | `Array` |

> | `strings` | An array with all the strings held in memory. These can be user-defined strings, code, etc. | `Array` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `strings` | An array of all of the strings that are held in memory. These can be any strings, such as user-defined strings or code. | `Array` |
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/e/etc

### Snapshot

```json
{
    "snapshot": {     
        "meta": {},
        "node_count": 123,
        "edge_count": 456,
        "trace_function_count": 0
    }
    ...
}
```

| Property | Description | Format |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `meta` | Contains several fields with information about the shape and size of every object contained in the payload | `Object` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `meta` | Contains several fields that contain information about the shape and size of every object that's contained in the payload. | `Object` |
```

> | `node_count` | The total number of nodes | `Number` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `node_count` | The total number of nodes in the graph. | `Number` |
```
tech review: total for an object, or for entire graph?

> | `edge_count` | The total number of edges. | `Number` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `edge_count` | The total number of edges in the memory graph. | `Number` |
```

> | `trace_function_count` | The total number of trace functions | `Number` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `trace_function_count` | The total number of trace functions in the memory graph. | `Number` |
```
tech review this change

### Snapshot metadata

```json
{
    "snapshot": {
        "meta": {
            "node_fields": [],
            "node_types": [],
            "edge_fields": [],
            "edge_types": []
        }
    }
    ...
}
```

| Property | Description | Format |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `node_fields` | The list of all the properties required to recreate a node. | `Array` |

Reviewer 2: Global: Consistently write "re-create" or "recreate".  I'd write "re-create"; clearer.  One meaning of "recreate" is recreation.  re-create is unambiguous.

https://www.ahdictionary.com/word/search.html?q=recreate

> | `node_fields` | The list of all the properties required to recreate a node. | `Array` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `node_fields` | The list of all the properties required to re-create a node. | `Array` |
```

| `node_types` | The types of all the properties required to recreate a node. The number of types is the same as the number of properties defined in `node_fields`. | `Array` |

> | `edge_fields` | The list of all properties required to recreate an edge. | `Array` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `edge_fields` | The list of all the properties that are required to recreate an edge. | `Array` |
```

Reviewer 2: global comment/pattern; how I'd write it slightly less telegraphic

| `edge_types` | The types of all the properties required to recreate an edge. The number of types is the same the number of properties in `edge_fields`. | `Array` |

> The code snippet below shows a metadata object example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code snippet shows a metadata object:
```
can override, case-by-case:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/b/below

                [
                    "hidden",
                    "array",
                    "string",
                    "object",
                    "code",
                    "closure",
                    "regexp",
                    "number",
                    "native",
                    "synthetic",
                    "concatenated string",
                    "sliced string",
                    "symbol",
                    "bigint",
                    "object shape"
                ],
                "string",
                "number",
                "number",
                "number",
                "number",
                "number"
            ],
            "edge_fields": [
                "type",
                "name_or_index",
                "to_node"
            ],
            "edge_types": [
                [
                    "context",
                    "element",
                    "property",
                    "internal",
                    "hidden",
                    "shortcut",
                    "weak"
                ],
                "string_or_number",
                "node"
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

### Nodes

> This `nodes` array, at the top-level of the `heapsnapshot` data, contains all the information needed to recreate the nodes of the graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This `nodes` array, at the top-level of the `heapsnapshot` data, contains all the information that's needed to recreate the nodes of the graph.
```

To parse this array, the following information is needed:

> * `snapshot.node_count` to know how many nodes there are.
> * `snapshot.meta.node_fields` to know how many fields each node has.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `snapshot.node_count`, to know how many nodes there are.
* `snapshot.meta.node_fields`, to know how many fields each node has.
```

Each node in the array is represented by a series of `snapshot.meta.node_fields.length` numbers. So the total number of elements in the `nodes` array is `snapshot.node_count` multiplied by `snapshot.meta.node_fields.length`.

> In order to recreate a node you need to read the numbers from the `nodes` array by groups of `snapshot.meta.node_fields.length`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To recreate a node, read the numbers from the `nodes` array by groups of `snapshot.meta.node_fields.length`.
```

> Below is a code snippet that shows the node fields metadata and the data for the two first nodes in the graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is a code snippet that shows the node fields metadata and the data for the two first nodes in the graph:
```

```json
{
    "snapshot": {
        "meta": {
            "node_fields": [
                "type",
                "name",
                "id",
                "self_size",
                "edge_count",
                "trace_node_id",
                "detachedness"
            ]
            ...
        }
        ...
    },
    "nodes": [
        9,1,1,0,10,0,0,
        2,1,79,12,1,0,0,
        ...
    ]
    ...
}
```

| Index in node group | Name | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `0` | `type` | The type of node. See [Node types](#node-types) to find out what are the possible types. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `0` | `type` | The type of node. See [Node types](#node-types), below. |
```

> | `1` | `name` | The name of the node. This number corresponds to the index in the `strings` top-level array which you need to look-up to find the actual name. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `1` | `name` | The name of the node. This is a number that's the index in the top-level `strings` array.  To find the actual name, use the index number to look up the name string in the top-level `strings` array. |
```
tech review this change

| `2` | `id` | The node's unique ID. |
| `3` | `self_size` | The node's size in bytes. |
| `4` | `edge_count` | The number of edges connected to this node. |

> | `5` | `trace_node_id` | _Not documented yet_ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `5` | `trace_node_id` | The ID of the trace node. <!--todo: more detail--> |
```

> | `6` | `detachedness` | Whether this node can be reached from the `window` global object. `0` if it can be reached, `1` if it can't. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `6` | `detachedness` | Whether this node can be reached from the `window` global object. `0` means the node is not detached; the node can be reached from the `window` global object.  `1` means the node is detached; the node can't be reached from the `window` global object. |
```

### Node types

The first number found in the group of numbers for a node in the `nodes` array corresponds to its type. 

This number is an index that can be used to lookup the type name in the `snapshot.meta.node_types[0]` array.

| Node type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Hidden | A V8 internal element that doesn't correspond directly to a user-controllable JavaScript object. In DevTools, these all show up under the category name **(system)**. Even though these objects are internal, they can be an important part of retainer paths. |

> | Object | Any user-defined object like `{ x: 2 }` or `new Foo(4)`. Contexts, which show up in DevTools as **system / Context** hold variables that had to be allocated on the heap because they're used by a nested function. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Object | Any user-defined object, like `{ x: 2 }` or `new Foo(4)`. Contexts, which show up in DevTools as **system / Context** hold variables that had to be allocated on the heap because they're used by a nested function. |
```

> | Native | Things allocated by the Blink rendering engine, not by V8. These are mostly DOM: HTMLDivElement, CSSStyleRule, etc. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Native | Things that are allocated by the Blink rendering engine, not by V8. These are mostly DOM items, such as HTMLDivElement or CSSStyleRule. |
```

> | Concatenated string | The result of concatenating two strings with the `+` operator. Rather than making a new string with a copy of all the data from the two source strings, V8 creates a ConsString object with pointers to the two source strings. From a JavaScript perspective, it acts just like any other string, but from a memory profiling perspective, it is different. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Concatenated string | The result of concatenating two strings with the `+` operator. Rather than making a new string that contains a copy of all the data from the two source strings, V8 creates a `ConsString` object that contains pointers to the two source strings. From a JavaScript perspective, it acts just like any other string, but from a memory profiling perspective, it is different. |
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/u/using-by-using-with

> | Sliced string | The result of a substring operation, such as using `String.prototype.substr` or `String.prototype.substring`. V8 avoids copying string data by instead creating a SlicedString which points to the original string and specifies the start index and length. From a JS perspective, it acts just like any other string, but from a memory profiling perspective, it is different. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Sliced string | The result of a substring operation, such as using `String.prototype.substr` or `String.prototype.substring`. V8 avoids copying string data by instead creating a `SlicedString`, which points to the original string and specifies the start index and length. From a JavaScript perspective, a sliced string acts just like any other string, but from a memory profiling perspective, it is different. |
```

> | Array | Various internal lists, which show up in the devtools with the category name **(array)**. Like Hidden, this category clumps together a bunch of unrelated things. Many of the objects here are named **(object properties)** or **(object elements)**, indicating that they contain the string-keyed or numeric-keyed properties of a JavaScript object. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Array | Various internal lists, which are displayed in DevTools with the category name **(array)**. Like Hidden, this category group together a variety of things. Many of the objects here are named **(object properties)** or **(object elements)**, indicating that they contain the string-keyed or numeric-keyed properties of a JavaScript object. |
```

Reviewer 2: re formatting code-like elements:   
In context of DevTools UI, use bold.  
In context of JSON code listing, use backticks.

| Code | Things that grow proportionally to the amount of script, and/or the number of times that functions run. |

> | Synthetic | Synthetic nodes don't correspond to anything actually allocated in memory. These are used to distinguish the different kinds of GC roots. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Synthetic | Synthetic nodes don't correspond to anything actually allocated in memory. These are used to distinguish the different kinds of garbage-collection (GC) roots. |
```

### Edges

> Similar to the `nodes` array, the `edges` top-level array contains all the individual elements needed to recreate the edges of the graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similar to the `nodes` array, the `edges` top-level array contains all of the elements that are needed to re-create the edges of the memory graph.
```

> Also similar to nodes, the total number of edges can be calculated by multiplying `snapshot.edge_count` with `snapshot.meta.edge_fields.length`. Edges are also stored as a sequence of numbers which you will need to iterate on by groups of `snapshot.meta.edge_fields.length`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also similar to nodes, the total number of edges can be calculated by multiplying `snapshot.edge_count` by `snapshot.meta.edge_fields.length`. Edges are also stored as a sequence of numbers which you will need to iterate on by groups of `snapshot.meta.edge_fields.length`.
```

> However, to read the `edges` array correctly, you first need read the `nodes` array because each node knows how many edges it has. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, to read the `edges` array correctly, you first need to read the `nodes` array, because each node knows how many edges it has. 
```

> To recreate an edge you need three pieces of information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To recreate an edge, you need three pieces of information:
```

* The edge type.
* The edge name or index.

> * The node the edge is connected to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The node that the edge is connected to.
```

> You can use `snapshot.meta.edge_types` to understand what each element is.

Reviewer 2: Is this sentence specifically what's being clarified by the next sentence?  If so, concat into 1 paragraph.

Can you clarify more concretely the abstract phrase "what each element is"?  For example?

> For example, if you read the first node in the `nodes` array and its `edge_count` property is set to 4, then the first 4 groups of `snapshot.meta.edge_fields.length` numbers in the `edges` array correspond to the 4 edges of this node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you read the first node in the `nodes` array and its `edge_count` property is set to 4, then the first four groups of `snapshot.meta.edge_fields.length` numbers in the `edges` array correspond to the four edges of this node.
```

| Index in edge group | Name | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `0` | `type` | The type of edge. See [Edge types](#edge-types) to find out what are the possible types. |

> | `1` | `name_or_index` | This can be a number or a string. If it’s a number, it corresponds to the index in the top-level `strings` array where the name of the edge can be found. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `1` | `name_or_index` | This can be a number or a string. If it's a number, it corresponds to the index in the top-level `strings` array where the name of the edge can be found. |
```
tip: if Doc Writer Pack extension-set is installed in VS Code, to auto straighten all quotes:
Ctrl+A, Cut
Paste
Save
See delta in a diff view eg GitHub Desktop, or VS Code's Source Control view.

| `2` | `to_node` | The index within the `nodes` array that this edge is connected to. |

> ### Edge types

Reviewer 2: Global: recommend using h2, h4, & h6.  Skip h3 & h5, given the current .css

> The first number found in the group of numbers for an edge in the `edges` array corresponds to its type. 
> 
> This number is an index that can be used to lookup the type name in the `snapshot.meta.edge_types[0]` array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first number found in the group of numbers for an edge in the `edges` array corresponds to its type.  This number is an index that can be used to lookup the type name in the `snapshot.meta.edge_types[0]` array.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd probably write "look up", could be a gray area from coding POV

| Edge type | Description |
| --- | --- |

> | Internal | Edges that don't correspond to JS-visible names but are still important. As an example, Function instances have a "context" representing the state of variables that were in scope where the function was defined. There is no way for JS code to directly read the "context" of a function, but it's still a very important link when trying to understand retainers. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Internal | Edges that don't correspond to JaveScript-visible names, but are still important. As an example, Function instances have a "context" representing the state of variables that were in scope where the function was defined. There is no way for JavaScript code to directly read the "context" of a function, but it's an important link when investigating retainers. |
```

> | Weak | Weak edges don't keep the node they are connected to alive, and thus are omitted from the Retainers view. Any object with only weak edges pointing to it can be discarded by the GC. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Weak | Weak edges don't keep the node they are connected to alive, and thus are omitted from the Retainers view. Any object with only weak edges pointing to it can be discarded by garbage collection (GC). |
```

> | Hidden | Just like Internal, except these edges don't have unique names and instead are numbered in increasing order. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Hidden | The same as Internal, except these edges don't have unique names, and instead are numbered in increasing order. |
```

> | Shortcut | An easier-to-read representation of some other path. This type is used very little. An example is if you use `Function.prototype.bind` to create a bound function with some bound arguments, V8 creates a JSBoundFunction, which points to a FixedArray (an internal type), which points to each bound argument. When producing a snapshot, V8 adds a shortcut edge from the bound function directly to each bound argument, bypassing the FixedArray. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Shortcut | An easier-to-read representation of some other path. This type is rarely used. For example, if you use `Function.prototype.bind` to create a bound function with some bound arguments, V8 creates a `JSBoundFunction`, which points to a `FixedArray` (an internal type), which points to each bound argument. When producing a snapshot, V8 adds a shortcut edge from the bound function directly to each bound argument, bypassing the `FixedArray`. |
```

| Element | Object properties where the key is a number. |

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See also

> * To learn more about the `heapsnapshot` file format, see the code that generates the file: [HeapSnapshotGenerator](https://chromium.googlesource.com/external/v8/+/master/src/heap-snapshot-generator.h).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To learn more about the `.heapsnapshot` file format, see the code that generates the file, which is [the `HeapSnapshot` class in `heap-snapshot-generator.h`](https://chromium.googlesource.com/external/v8/+/master/src/heap-snapshot-generator.h#142).
```
not sure how stable line number 142 is in the link
